*
CLIMATE CHANGE...
THE OZONE HOLE...
DESERTIFICATION...
OVERPOPULATION...
POLLUTION.
ENVIRONMENTAL GEOLOGY IS
THE FIELD OF SCIENCE THAT
INVOLVES THE STUDY OF THE
GEOLOGICAL ENVIRONMENT
INCLUDING THE LITHOSPHERE
- THE SOLID PLANET;
THE HYDROSPHERE
- ALL THE WATER;
THE ATMOSPHERE - THE
PLANET'S ENVELOPE OF AIR;
AND THE BIOSPHERE - ALL
THE LIFE ON THE PLANET.
AND THIS FIELD EXPLORES
THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN
THESE SPHERES AND THE
IMPACT THAT HUMANS HAVE
ON OUR ENVIRONMENT.
I THINK THAT WE FORGET
SOMETIMES HOW MUCH OF
AN IMPACT WE HAVE
ON THE ENVIRONMENT
BECAUSE WE ARE USED TO
THINKING OF THE ENVIRONMENT
AS THIS HUGE
THING, YOU KNOW?
WE THINK "ENVIRONMENT", WE
THINK "OH, TREES, FORESTS",
YOU KNOW? YOU DON'T REALLY
PLACE YOURSELF IN THAT.
YOU DON'T REALLY UNDERSTAND
HOW WHAT YOU CONSUME,
THE PRODUCTS OF
YOUR CONSUMPTION,
WHERE DO THEY END UP,
WHERE DO THEY GO?
WE JUST KIND OF PUT OUR
THINGS IN A TRASH CAN
AND DON'T HAVE TO
DEAL WITH IT ANYMORE.
THE RESULT IS THAT WE OVER
USE AND WE OVER CONSUME
AND WE PRODUCE
A LOT OF WASTE.
THE EARTH IS BECOMING
MORE AND MORE POPULATED
SO THERE'S MORE DEMAND
ON THE RESOURCES.
YEAH, I MEAN, ALL THE
RESOURCES WE UTILIZE
AS A SPECIES COMES
FROM PLANET EARTH.
WE DON'T, YOU KNOW,
MINE ASTEROIDS;
WE DON'T GO TO JUPITER FOR
OUR HYDROGEN AND HELIUM.
EVERYTHING WE GET, WE GET
FROM THE CRUST OF THE EARTH.
ALL THE MINIMAL RESOURCES
THAT WE USE FOR METALS
AND THE STEEL IN BUILDINGS,
THE GLASS WE HAVE
IN SKY SCRAPERS, THIS
COMES FROM SILICA SAND.
EVEN THE MOST HIGH
TECH PLASTIC, YOU KNOW,
COMPUTER PART OR TOY OR
WHAT HAVE YOU, THESE ARE
RAW MATERIALS THAT WE
HAVE TO SURVEY, WE HAVE TO
IDENTIFY, AND WE HAVE
TO RESPONSIBLY EXPLOIT
FROM THE EARTH IN
ORDER TO MAINTAIN
THE TYPE OF CIVILIZATION
WE HAVE TODAY.
OUR FAST-PACED,
TECHNOLOGICAL,
CONSUMER-BASED AND EVER
GROWING CIVILIZATION RELIES
HEAVILY ON THE NATURAL
RESOURCES FROM THE EARTH.
AND AS THE POPULATION
GROWS, THE DEMAND GROWS,
AND AS A RESULT
WE ARE IN DANGER
OF DEPLETING THESE
NATURAL RESOURCES.
HUMAN ACTIVITIES ARE ALSO
HAVING TREMENDOUS IMPACTS
ON THE OCEANS, ON THE SOILS
OF THE EARTH, ON ITS FORESTS.
WE'RE CUTTING DOWN
TREES; THE OCEAN IS THE
CLASSIC EXAMPLE, WE'RE JUST
OVER FISHING THE OCEAN.
THE NEED FOR FOOD,
ENERGY AND MATERIALS
IS GROWING AT AN
ASTOUNDING RATE.
AND WHILE WE ARE DEPLETING
THE EARTH'S RESOURCES,
WE ARE ALSO
ADDING POLLUTANTS.
THE FUELS FOR CARS AND
INDUSTRIES IS POLLUTING
OUR AIR WITH
SMOG AND ACID RAIN,
AND MANY OF THE
MATERIALS WE USE
END UP AS WASTE,
FILLING UP LANDFILLS.
WE ARE POLLUTING THE
OCEANS WITH GAS AND OIL,
CONTAMINATING OUR FRESH
WATER WITH PESTICIDES
AND SEWAGE... AND THE
LIST IS GROWING.
HUMAN ACTIVITIES ARE
HAVING THESE KINDS OF
IMPACTS ON THE EARTH.
I'M NOT SAYING ALL
ACTIVITIES ARE BAD,
BUT MANY OF THEM ARE
BEGINNING TO HAVE
PROFOUND INFLUENCES
ON THE EARTH'S SURFACE.
MORE AND MORE PEOPLE ARE
ENJOYING THE SCENIC WONDERS
OF OUR WORLD THROUGH
TOURISM AND RECREATION.
WHILE THIS CAN HAVE GREAT
ECONOMIC VALUE FOR THE
REGION, AND BE FUN AND
EDUCATIONAL FOR THE
VISITORS, THESE SITES CAN
SUFFER FROM OVEREXPOSURE.
CARLSBAD CAVERNS NATIONAL
PARK IN NEW MEXICO
PRESERVES MORE THAN
100 KNOWN CAVES
IN A PERMIAN-AGE
FOSSIL REEF.
ALTHOUGH THE CAVES ARE A
DELICATE RESOURCE, THEY
ARE A CONTINUAL SOURCE OF
EXPLORATION AND DISCOVERY
FOR MORE THAN 500,000
VISITORS A YEAR.
ALL PARKS ESSENTIALLY
ARE BALANCING VISITATION
VERSUS PROTECTING
THE RESOURCE.
IN THIS PARTICULAR CASE,
YOU KNOW, THE VISITORS
HAVE HAD AN IMPACT ON
CARLSBAD CAVERN....
ALSO JUST THE
DEVELOPMENT ITSELF.
PUTTING IN PAVED TRAILS,
YOU HAD TO MOVE ROCKS.
YOU CHANGED EVEN HOW ANIMALS
MOVE IN AND OUT OF THE CAVE
BECAUSE NOW YOU HAVE
A VERY FAST PATHWAY,
ESSENTIALLY THIS
NICE WIDE HIGHWAY
THAT THEY CAN GO
UP AND DOWN WITH.
BUT ANOTHER ASPECT OF
THE PARK IS, BY ALLOWING
PEOPLE TO EXPERIENCE THE
RESOURCE, IT GIVES PEOPLE
A MUCH BETTER APPRECIATION
OF NOT JUST CARLSBAD CAVERN
BUT CAVES IN GENERAL AND
REALLY HELPS US A LOT
TO PROTECT OTHER CAVES.
THERE ARE A LOT OF OTHER
CAVES IN THE PARK THAT ARE
NOT OPEN TO THE PUBLIC
AND HAVING CARLSBAD OPEN
GIVES US A CHANCE TO
EXPLAIN WHY CAVES LIKE THAT
AREN'T OPEN, YOU KNOW,
LOOKING AT THE IMPACTS
THAT PEOPLE HAVE
ON THE RESOURCES.
BUT WITHOUT EDUCATING
THE PEOPLE ON IT,
THEY WOULD NEVER
SUPPORT US IN
PROTECTING
OTHER RESOURCES.
PROTECTING OUR NATIONAL
FORESTS, PRESERVES,
AND WILD LANDS IS VITAL,
SO TREADING LIGHTLY IS
IMPORTANT IN SUSTAINING
THESE RESOURCES FOR WILDLIFE,
AND THE ENJOYMENT OF PRESENT
AND FUTURE GENERATIONS.
AIR POLLUTION...
WATER POLLUTION...
THE LOSS OF WETLANDS
AND RAIN FORESTS
ARE ALL CONCERNS FOR
EARTH SCIENTISTS
AND ALL OF
US ON EARTH,
BUT SOLVING THESE PROBLEMS
IS NOT A SIMPLE ONE.
PEOPLE USED TO FOCUS
ON ONE LITTLE TOPIC
AND NOW WE REALIZE THAT
THERE'S SO MANY INFLUENCES
THAT YOU CAN'T JUST
FOCUS ON ONE THING.
YOU HAVE TO LOOK AT
THE WHOLE SYSTEM.
THE IMPORTANT THING
TO NOTE ABOUT EACH OF
THESE SYSTEMS IS THEY
ALL WORK TOGETHER.
NO ONE SYSTEM
WORKS IN ISOLATION.
THE IMPORTANT THING TO
REALIZE IS THAT IF YOU
AFFECT ONE SYSTEM, YOU IN
TURN AFFECT ALL OTHERS.
YOU CAN'T POLLUTE THE
ATMOSPHERE WITHOUT IN TURN
AFFECTING THE OCEANS
AND AFFECTING LIFE AND
EVENTUALLY AFFECTING
THE LITHOSPHERE.
HUMAN BEINGS NOW, BECAUSE
OF THE TECHNOLOGY
WE POSSESS, ARE ABLE TO
LITERALLY TRANSFORM
ENORMOUS AREAS.
OFTEN IT'S THE CASE
THAT WHEN YOU DO THIS,
YOU DON'T HAVE A SENSE OF
WHAT THE CONSEQUENCES
OF THESE KINDS OF
CHANGES MIGHT BE.
WHILE BUILDING HOUSES
AND CITIES IS NECESSARY
AND CAN IMPROVE OUR
LIFESTYLES, MUCH WASTE
CAN BE ASSOCIATED
WITH CONSTRUCTION,
INCLUDING UNUSED AND
EXCESS MATERIALS.
LARGER CITIES CAN ALSO
AFFECT THE SOUND QUALITY...
THE AIR QUALITY...
AND THE WATER SUPPLY.
AS CITIES GET
BIGGER AND BIGGER,
OBVIOUSLY MOST PEOPLE
DON'T GET THEIR WATER
FROM LOTS OF
RIVERS AND THINGS.
YOU LOOK AT PLACES
LIKE PHOENIX WHERE
THERE'S ESSENTIALLY
NO SURFACE WATER
AND ALMOST ALL
THOSE PLACES ARE,
YOU KNOW, PUMPING WATER
OUT OF THE GROUND,
WHICH IS A MAJOR ISSUE AS
OUR POPULATION GETS BIGGER
BECAUSE THE
AVAILABILITY OF CLEAN,
FRESH WATER IS
ACTUALLY GOING DOWN.
WE'RE REALLY
OUTSTRIPPING OUR SUPPLY.
LANDSCAPING AND FARMING
CAN ALSO HAVE AN IMPACT
ON THE WATER SUPPLY.
WE ACTUALLY WASTE
A LOT OF WATER -
EVERYBODY WANTING TO HAVE
NICE, LUSH BLUEGRASS LAWNS,
WHICH ARE FINE IF YOU
ACTUALLY LIVE IN KENTUCKY
AND IT RAINS ENOUGH.
BUT WHEN YOU'RE IN A PLACE
LIKE DENVER OR SOME PLACE
THAT'S ACTUALLY A
DESERT, YOU JUST DON'T
HAVE ENOUGH WATER TO
SUPPORT THAT NATURALLY.
SO WE'RE REPLACING THESE
LUSH LAWNS WITH EITHER
NATIVE GRASSES THAT
ARE ACTUALLY BETTER AT
SURVIVING UNDER MORE
DROUGHT CONDITIONS
OR, EVEN BETTER,
DOING XERISCAPING
USING ALL NATIVE PLANTS
AS A WAY TO CONSERVE,
YOU KNOW, SPREADING
OUT WATER.
WATER POLLUTION IS
ALSO A MAJOR CONCERN.
THE WATER USED IN
FARMING AND AGRICULTURE
CAN HAVE SERIOUS AND LONG
LASTING CONSEQUENCES.
UNFORTUNATELY WHEN WATER
IS SUPPLIED TO FARM LAND
IT'S ACTUALLY PICKING UP
THINGS LIKE FERTILIZER
AND HERBICIDES AND THINGS
LIKE THAT WHICH ARE HARD TO
GET BACK OUT OF THE WATER,
SO IT'S NOT LIKE YOU JUST
LET IT EVAPORATE AND IT
RE-ENTERS THE WHOLE SYSTEM
AND IS CLEANED UP.
CONTAMINATED WATER RE-ENTERS
THE SYSTEM IN OUR RIVERS
AND STREAMS, AFFECTING
LIFE IN THE WATER,
AND SOMETIMES
THE WATER WE DRINK.
CITY SEWAGE AND INDUSTRIAL
WASTE DISCHARGED INTO THE
RIVERS ARE MAJOR CULPRITS
OF WATER POLLUTION.
THE EFFECTS OF WATER
POLLUTION ARE NOT ONLY
DEVASTATING TO PEOPLE, BUT
ALSO TO ANIMALS, FISH,
AND BIRDS.
ANOTHER ENVIRONMENTAL
ISSUE THAT INVOLVES
BALANCING THE GROWING NEED
FOR NATURAL RESOURCES WITH
DEPLETION AND POLLUTION
IS DEFORESTATION.
DEFORESTATION IS THE
PERMANENT DESTRUCTION OF
OUR INDIGENOUS FORESTS AND
WOODLANDS, AND ONE OF THE
MAJOR CONCERNS IS THE RATE
AT WHICH DEFORESTATION IS
OCCURRING THROUGHOUT THE
WORLD LARGELY DUE TO THE
GROWING NEEDS FOR FARMING,
RANCHING AND MINING.
THERE ARE MANY
TYPES OF FORESTS:
TEMPERATE FORESTS
RAINFORESTS
MANGROVE SWAMPS
AND THEY ALL HAVE MANY
IMPORTANT FUNCTIONS
IN THE ENVIRONMENT.
THEY PROVIDE HABITAT FOR
MANY IMPORTANT SPECIES,
HELP REPLENISH
NUTRIENTS IN THE LAND,
PROVIDE US IMPORTANT TIMBER
AND WOOD BASED PRODUCTS,
HELP PREVENT EROSION
AND LANDSLIDES,
AND THEY PRODUCE OXYGEN
WHILE TRAPPING CARBON
AND OTHER POLLUTANTS
IN THE AIR.
IT IS ESTIMATED THAT
80% OF THE WORLD'S
ORIGINAL FOREST HAS BEEN
CLEARED OR DEGRADED.
AND WHILE NEW AWARENESS
IS BEGINNING TO PROTECT
MANY FORESTS, IRRESPONSIBLE
CLEAR CUTTING CONTINUES
AT AN ALARMING RATE.
BY REMOVING THE FOREST
THROUGH CLEAR CUTTING
YOU BEGIN TO DRAMATICALLY
CHANGE THOSE SLOPES.
YOU DRAMATICALLY CHANGE
THE RESPONSE TO RAINFALL,
TO EROSION, YOU BEGIN TO
STRIP SOME OF THE SOILS.
SOILS TAKE THOUSANDS
TO TENS OF THOUSANDS OR
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF
YEARS TO FORM SO IF YOU
REMOVE THEM BY STRIPPING
AN AREA OF ITS VEGETATION,
ENHANCING EROSION, THIS IS
NOT A SYSTEM - THAT IS,
A SOIL - THAT'S GOING TO
COME BACK VERY QUICKLY
EVEN IF YOU WERE TO ALLOW
THE FORESTS TO GROW AGAIN
BECAUSE SOILS TAKE
THOUSANDS AND THOUSANDS
OF YEARS TO FORM.
WITHOUT THE NUTRIENT-RICH
SOIL AND TREES,
THE BALANCE OF THIS
ECOSYSTEM IS DISRUPTED.
IF THE REGION CANNOT
HOLD AS MUCH WATER,
MANY OF THE PLANTS
AND ANIMALS THAT
DEPEND ON THE FOREST
CAN GO EXTINCT.
SO WHAT HAPPENS IS THAT
YOU DON'T HAVE THOSE
NORMAL "GIVE AND TAKE"
CYCLES THAT YOU HAVE
IN FORESTED AREAS
WHERE THERE'S PLANTS
THAT ARE TAKING
NUTRIENTS BUT
THEY'RE ALSO GIVING
NUTRIENTS BACK.
IN THESE AREAS THERE'S
NO PLANTS AND THERE'S
NO WATER SO THE CYCLE
CAN'T TAKE PLACE AND
EVENTUALLY IT'S JUST
UNABLE TO SUPPORT LIFE
AND IT BECOMES THIS
DRY AND BARREN PLACE.
RAINFORESTS CURRENTLY
PROVIDE SOURCES FOR
ONE-FOURTH OF TODAY'S
MEDICINES, AND THEY ALSO
CONTAIN IMMENSE
UNDISCOVERED RESOURCES
THAT MAY HOLD THE KEY TO
UNLOCKING FUTURE CURES.
HOWEVER, IT IS ESTIMATED
THAT NEARLY HALF OF
THE WORLD'S SPECIES
OF PLANTS, ANIMALS,
AND MICROORGANISMS WILL
BE DESTROYED OR SEVERELY
THREATENED OVER THE
NEXT QUARTER-CENTURY
DUE TO RAINFOREST
DEFORESTATION.
WE KNOW THAT, FOR EXAMPLE,
MANY, MANY SPECIES
ARE BECOMING EXTINCT SO
RAPIDLY THAT WE MAY BE
LOOKING AT ONE OF THE
GREATEST WAVES IN THE
EXTINCTION OF LIFE, OR
AT LEAST MANY SPECIES
IN THE LAST 25, PERHAPS
50 MILLION YEARS.
THAT'S 50,000
SPECIES A YEAR.
ANOTHER MAJOR RESULT
OF DEFORESTATION IS IN
THE DISRUPTION OF
THE CARBON CYCLE.
WITH FEWER TREES,
LESS CO2 IS ABSORBED
FROM THE ATMOSPHERE.
AND, IN FACT, WHEN
THEY ARE BURNED OR ROT,
CARBON DIOXIDE IS RELEASED
BACK INTO THE ATMOSPHERE.
THE FOCUS REALLY IS
NOW ON CLIMATE CHANGE.
I THINK THERE'S A LOT OF
PEOPLE LOOKING AT THAT.
GLOBAL WARMING IS WITHOUT
DOUBT THE MOST SERIOUS
POTENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL
CONCERN THAT WE HAVE TODAY.
WE HAVE SEEN CHANGES
IN THE CLIMATE IN A
SHORT PERIOD OF TIME,
IN A DECADE OR SO,
AND IT'S SIGNIFICANT.
IT'S THE TOPIC OF A LOT
OF RESEARCH AND IT'S
THE CAUSE FOR ALL THE
DEBATE AND DISCUSSION
ABOUT GLOBAL WARMING.
CLIMATE CHANGE
REPRESENTS A CHANGE
IN LONG-TERM
WEATHER PATTERNS.
THEY CAN BECOME WARMER OR
COLDER; WETTER OR DRIER.
GLOBAL WARMING REFERS
TO AN AVERAGE INCREASE
IN THE EARTH'S
TEMPERATURE,
WHICH IN TURN CAUSES
CHANGES IN CLIMATE.
THE EARTH'S SURFACE
TEMPERATURE HAS RISEN
BY ABOUT ONE
DEGREE FAHRENHEIT
IN THE PAST CENTURY, AND
SCIENTISTS EXPECT IT TO
INCREASE AN ADDITIONAL
TWO TO SIX DEGREES
OVER THE NEXT
HUNDRED YEARS.
THERE'S NO DOUBT THAT THE
CLIMATE IS GETTING WARMER
ACROSS MUCH OF THE EARTH.
OUR TEMPERATURE DATA
ARE PLENTY GOOD ENOUGH
TO DETERMINE THAT
THAT'S HAPPENING.
HOWEVER, WE ALSO KNOW THAT
THE CLIMATE HAS WARMED UP
AND COOLED OFF A LOT IN
PREVIOUS GEOLOGICAL PERIODS.
THE FLUCTUATIONS OF
CLIMATE ARE QUITE DRASTIC
AND IT'S ONLY IN THE LAST
100 MILLION YEARS OR SO
THAT IT'S ACTUALLY BEEN
QUITE STABLE AND THAT'S
PROBABLY WHY HUMANS
HAVE REALLY FLOURISHED,
AND LIFE IN GENERAL
HAS REALLY FLOURISHED.
THERE ARE A NUMBER OF
DIFFERENT MECHANISMS
THAT WOULD ALLOW THE PLANET
TO GET WARMER AND COOLER
AND DIFFERENTIATING
ONE CAUSE FROM ANOTHER
IS EXTREMELY DIFFICULT
AND THERE'S A
VERY ACTIVE DEBATE
OVER HOW MUCH OF THAT
MAY BE DUE TO THE
ACTIVITIES OF PEOPLE.
SCIENTISTS ARE NOT EXACTLY
SURE WHY CLIMATES CHANGE,
PERHAPS PERIODS OF
INCREASED HEAT FROM THE SUN
MAY HAVE HELPED MAKE
THE EARTH BECOME WARMER.
BUT MANY OF THE WORLD'S
LEADING CLIMATOLOGISTS
THINK THAT HUMAN
ACTIVITIES HAVE ALTERED
THE CHEMICAL COMPOSITION
OF THE ATMOSPHERE
THROUGH THE BUILDUP
OF GREENHOUSE GASES.
THE GREENHOUSE EFFECT
IS WHAT REGULATES
THE TEMPERATURE
OF OUR PLANET.
AS THE SUN'S RAYS STRIKE
THE EARTH'S SURFACE,
HEAT IS RADIATED BACK
INTO THE ATMOSPHERE.
SOME HEAT ESCAPES INTO
SPACE, BUT THE REMAINING
HEAT IS TRAPPED BY
GREENHOUSE GASES
SUCH AS METHANE, NITROUS
OXIDE AND CARBON DIOXIDE.
WITHOUT A NATURAL
GREENHOUSE EFFECT,
THE TEMPERATURE OF THE EARTH
WOULD BE ABOUT ZERO DEGREES
FAHRENHEIT INSTEAD OF
ITS PRESENT 57 DEGREES.
SO, THE CONCERN IS NOT
WITH THE FACT THAT WE HAVE
A GREENHOUSE EFFECT, BUT
WHETHER HUMAN ACTIVITIES
ARE LEADING TO AN ENHANCEMENT
OF THE GREENHOUSE EFFECT.
INCREASED AGRICULTURE...
DEFORESTATION...
LANDFILLS...
INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION...
AND MINING ALL CONTRIBUTE
A SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT
OF METHANE AND NITROUS
OXIDE, AND ESPECIALLY
CARBON DIOXIDE EMISSIONS
INTO THE ATMOSPHERE.
MOST OF THOSE CARBON
IS LOCKED UP IN THE
GEOSPHERE, LIKE 80%,
AND WHAT'S HAPPENING NOW
IS THAT WE'RE
MESSING WITH THAT.
WE'RE TAKING CARBON OUT
AS OIL AND GAS AND WE'RE
BURNING IT AND WE'RE PUTTING
IT INTO THE ATMOSPHERE.
SO WE'RE KIND OF MESSING
WITH THE CARBON CYCLE
AND THAT'S WHAT'S
DRIVING GLOBAL WARMING.
WELL, THE FIRST THING TO
UNDERSTAND IS HOW MUCH CO2
WE'RE ACTUALLY PUTTING
INTO THE ENVIRONMENT.
SOMEWHERE BETWEEN 20
AND 50 TRILLION POUNDS
OF CO2 A YEAR COME OUT
OF OUR EXHAUST PIPES
AND OUR FACTORIES'
CHIMNEYS EVERY YEAR,
AND THE NUMBER IS
INCREASING EXPONENTIALLY
BECAUSE WE ARE CONSUMING
MORE AND MORE FOSSIL FUELS.
THAT'S A LOT OF CO2,
AND THAT'S ENOUGH CO2,
WHICH IS A GREENHOUSE
GAS, TO REALLY START
AFFECTING THE CLIMATE
OF OUR PLANET.
A FEW DEGREES MAY NOT
SOUND LIKE MUCH, BUT IT
COULD CHANGE THE EARTH'S
CLIMATE DRASTICALLY.
FOR EXAMPLE, AT THE PEAK
OF THE LAST ICE AGE
ABOUT 18,000 YEARS AGO, THE
TEMPERATURE OF THE EARTH
WAS ONLY SEVEN DEGREES
FAHRENHEIT COLDER
THAN IT IS TODAY.
THERE ARE MANY CONSEQUENCES
OF THIS WARMING,
SUCH AS HEAT WAVES
AND THE MELTING OF
THE POLAR ICE CAPS
AND THE GLACIERS.
BY MELTING THEM, WE'RE
PUTTING MORE WATER
INTO THE OCEANS.
IT'S GOING TO RAISE SEA
LEVEL, THE ANIMALS THAT
LIVE ON THE ICE
ARE UNDER THREAT.
RISING SEA LEVELS CAN
RESULT IN COASTAL FLOODING
AND CAN EFFECT THE
LOCATION AND POPULATION
OF PLANT AND ANIMAL LIFE
THAT MUST ADAPT OR MOVE
TO SURVIVE THE
CHANGING CONDITIONS.
GLOBAL WARMING CAN ALSO
AFFECT WEATHER PATTERNS.
WITH MORE
POWERFUL STORMS,
INCREASED DROUGHTS
AND FIRES,
POLLUTION AND DISEASES.
AND THESE ARE JUST A
FEW OF THE POTENTIAL
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS.
THE POTENTIAL PROBLEMS
FROM GLOBAL WARMING
COULD BE REALLY QUITE
CATASTROPHIC IN TERMS
OF CHANGING COMPLETELY
THE WEATHER PATTERNS
AND IF OR HOW
WE DO BUSINESS.
SO IF YOU HAVE HURRICANES,
SERIOUS HURRICANES,
REPEATED HURRICANES
EVERY YEAR IN FLORIDA,
THAT CHANGES THE WAY PEOPLE
DO BUSINESS IN FLORIDA.
MASSIVE FIRES IN THE WEST
- THAT CAUSES A LOT OF
MONETARY DAMAGE AS WELL AS
DAMAGE TO OUR ENVIRONMENT.
IF A PARTICULAR REGION
IS USED TO GROWING
A PARTICULAR CROP AND
SUDDENLY THAT CROP...
IT'S TOO DRY OR TOO COLD
OR TOO HOT FOR THAT CROP
AND EVERYTHING
HAS TO BE CHANGED,
THAT'S A BIG COST.
THESE POTENTIAL CONSEQUENCES
ARE REALLY SEVERE.
I THINK THE BIGGEST PROBLEM
WE FACE AS A SPECIES
IS OVERPOPULATION.
I THINK THAT IF WE KEEP OUR
POPULATION, OR AT LEAST
BE COGNIZANT OF OUR
POPULATION IN SUCH A WAY
THAT WE WORK IN HARMONY
WITH OUR OWN PLANET;
THAT WE DON'T
EXHAUST THE RESOURCES
THAT ARE NEEDED TO
SUSTAIN US AS A SPECIES.
BUT THAT'S GOING TO BE
THE MOST IMPORTANT STEP
FOR OUR FUTURE
SURVIVABILITY.
I THINK ONE OF THE THINGS
WE COULD DO TO ALLEVIATE
THE STRESS THAT WE PUT
ON THE ENVIRONMENT,
THE STRESS THAT OUR WASTE
AND OVER USE PRODUCES,
IS BY EDUCATING
PEOPLE A LITTLE MORE.
I DON'T KNOW ANYONE WHO
WOULD NOT CHOOSE TO BUY
AN ENERGY EFFICIENT
APPLIANCE IF THEY COULD.
IT'S JUST THAT THEY
DON'T KNOW ANY BETTER.
THEY DON'T REALIZE
WHAT THE DIFFERENCE IS
AND THEY DON'T THINK
THAT THEIR ONE SODA CAN
CAN AFFECT A LANDFILL.
REDUCE, REUSE AND RECYCLE.
WE HAVE LEARNED THAT WE
NEED TO MAKE SACRIFICES
TO SAVE THE PLANET.
THE SIMPLEST
ONE IS JUST THAT
THAT BIG CAR YOU'RE
DRIVING, MAYBE YOU'D
HAVE TO DRIVE A CAR THAT
HAS BETTER FUEL EFFICIENCY.
WE HAVE TO BUILD OUR HOMES
WITH BETTER FUEL EFFICIENCY,
AND WE HAVE TO CHANGE THE
WAY WE'RE GETTING OUR ENERGY
FROM THE CONTINUED
USE OF FOSSIL FUELS
TO GETTING ENERGY FROM
RENEWABLE RESOURCES
SUCH AS FROM WIND POWER,
SOLAR POWER,
HYDROELECTRIC POWER.
ALL OF THESE THINGS ARE
POSSIBLE AND THEY'RE
THINGS THAT CAN
BE DONE RIGHT NOW.
IT IS EARTH SCIENTISTS
THAT ARE BEGINNING TO
RECOGNIZE SOME OF
THESE CHANGES AND WE'RE
BEGINNING TO TRY TO
UNDERSTAND BETTER
WHAT THE MAGNITUDE OF THESE
IMPACTS ARE GOING TO BE.
AND THAT'S WHAT'S
EXCITING, I THINK,
ABOUT THE EARTH SCIENCES,
THE ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCES,
IS WE'RE THE ONES OUT
THERE STUDYING THESE AREAS
AND TRYING TO FIGURE
OUT JUST EXACTLY
WHAT THOSE
IMPACTS WILL BE.
IT'S NOT VERY
EASY BECAUSE
OFTENTIMES IT'S
VERY COMPLICATED.
BUT WITH ENOUGH TIME,
EFFORT, AND ENERGY
AND ENTHUSIASM, YOU
CAN LEARN A LOT.
AS WE CONTINUE TO LEARN
AND DEVELOP NEW WAYS
TO CONSERVE, WE ALSO
LOOK TOWARD A FUTURE
WHEN OUR DEMANDS WILL
NOT TIP THE BALANCE
OF OUR DELICATE
PLANET EARTH.
*